{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs20\kerning28 Normal
;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt360\margl360\margr360\margb360\headery720\footery864
\deftab720\pgnstart1\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0{\*\docvar{ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar
{ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StylePos}{-1}}\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
{\header\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\fs20\par
}{\footer\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\fs20\par
}Final Exam Review, 526\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 1.  CDMA -- 
Code Division Multiple Access.   Refer to 6.5 on page 512.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 2.  CSMA/
CA in IEEE 802.11 MAC -- (Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance
)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Foreign
 agents create COA (care-of address).  Network portion matches the foreign network
.  Permanent address and foreign address.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 3.  IP registration
 in Mobile IP -- \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28      Three
 parts:\line\tab Agent discovery\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab Agent
 advertisement -- agent advertises services with existing router discovery protocol
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
Home agent bit\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
Foreign agent bit\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
Registration required bit\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
M, G encapsulation bits\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
COA fields\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab Agent
 solicitation -- node broadcasts solicitation message (see fig 6.22 on pg 548)\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Registration
 with home agent -- register and deregister COAs with home agent (mobile node or
 foreign node) after rec COA:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab 1
.  After receiving foreign advert, mobile node sends IP registration message to 
agent via UDP datagram on port 434.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab\tab
Contains Home agent address (HA), permanent address for node (MA), requested lifetime
, and 64-bit registration id.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab 2
.  Foreign agent receives reg message and records MA, then sends a mobile IP reg
 message (same stats as above) to 434 of \tab\tab\tab      home agent.  Foreign 
agent knows to look for datagrams containing encapsulated datagrams destined for
 MA.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab 3
.  Home agent rec. reg request and checks for authenticity/correctness.  Home agent
 binds mobile node\u8217\'92s MA with COA  \tab\tab\tab      (now datagrams arriving
 at home agent to mobile node will be encapsulated and tunneled to COA).  Home agent
 sends reg \tab\tab\tab      reply (contains HA, MA, {\i actual} reg lifetime, and
 reg id.)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab 4
.  Foreign agent receives the reg reply and then forwards it to the mobile node.
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab\tab **
Deregistration of COA occurs automatically when mobile node leaves network.**\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Indirect
 routing of datagrams -- datagrams forwarded to mobile nodes via home agent.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 4.  Handoffs
 in GSM.  Handoff -- a mobile station changes its association from one base station
 to another during a call.  (several reasons)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
1.  The old base station informs the visited MSC that a handoff is to be performed
 and the BS(s) to which the mobile is to be handed off.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
2.  The visited MSC initiates path setup to the new BS, allocating the resources
 need to carry the rerouted call, and signaling the new BS that a handoff is about
 to occur.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
3.  The new BS allocates and activates a radio channel for use by the mobile.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
4.  The new BS signals back to the visited MSC and the old BS that the visited informed
 of the impending handoff.  The new BS provides all of the information that the 
mobile will need to associate with the new BS.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
5.  The mobile is informed that it should perform a handoff.  Note that up until
 this point, the mobile has been blissfully unaware that the network has been laying
 the groundwork for a handoff.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
6.  The mobile and the new BS exchange one or more messages to fully activate the
 new channel in the new BS.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
7.  The mobile sends a handoff complete message to the new BS, which is forwarded
 up to the visited MSC.  The visited MSC then reroutes the on-going call to the 
mobile via the new BS.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
8.  The resources allocated along the path to the old BS are then released.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 5.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 6.  See other
 review; slide 5 chapter 7.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 7.  589\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 8.  RTSP -- 
Real-time streaming protocol  (out of band)  SETUP OK PLAY PAUSE REWIND TEARDOWN
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 9.  589\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 10. Send 
over TCP, not UDP.  (crappy);  Conceal packet loss with forward error correction
 (FEC) -- redundant information;  3{\super rd}???\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 11. RTP Header
 fields (normal total:  12 bytes; with 160-byte audio chunk, forms RTP packet):\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Payload
 type:  7 bits.  Indicates type of audio or video encoding.  May change encoding
 in middle of session.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Sequence
 number:  16 bits.  Increases by 1 for each packet in sequence, and is used to detect
 packet loss.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Timestamp
 Field:  32 bits.  Can be used to remove packet jitter.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Synchronization
 Source Identifier (SSRC):  32 bits.  Ids source of RTP stream.  NOT an IP address
, but a randomly selected number \tab From source.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Miscellaneous
 fields apparently use the remainder of the 12 bytes in the header.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28      RTP 
usually runs on top of UDP.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 12. SIP -- 
Session Initiation Protocol  see 603\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Provides
 mechanisms for establishing calls over IP.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Mechanisms
 for caller to determine the IP address of the callee.  (Needed due to changing 
IP\u8217\'92s due to DHCP and multiple device use.)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Mechanisms
 for call management--adding media streams, encoding changes, new participants, 
call transfer, holding.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 13. CDN Content
 Distribution Networks -- CDN company installs many CDN servers throughout the Internet
, and distributes customer data    \tab throughout, providing a cache for the customer
\u8217\'92s clients.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 14. 4 Principles
 of beyond best efforts.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\li720{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 1.  
Packet classification allows a router to distinguish among packets belonging to 
different classes of traffic.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
2.  It is desirable to provide a degree of isolation among traffic flows, so that
 one flow is not adversely affected by another \tab\tab  misbehaving flow.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
3.  While providing isolation among flows, it is desirable to use resources as efficiently
 as possible.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-270\li990{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
4.  If sufficient resources will not always be available, a call admission process
 is needed in which flows declare their QoS \tab    requirements and are then either
 admitted to the network (at the required QoS) or blocked from the network (if the
 required QoS cannot be provided by the network.)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 15.  FIFO
 -- First in First out\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28        WFQ
 -- Weighted Fair Queuing.  Like round robin, but some classes receive a larger 
slice than others.  Return to 625 for calcs.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28        Leaky
 bucket -- just read 625.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 16.  631\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 17.  RSVP
 -- Applications reserve bandwidth for their data flows.  637\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab 1.  Reservations
 of bandwidth in multicast trees (unicast = degenerate case of multicast)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab 2.  Receiver
 oriented -- receiver initiates and maintains the resoure reservation.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
18.  See latter slides on chapter 8\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
19.  SSL -- Secure Sockets Layer.  Begins with a \u8220\'93handshake phase\u8221
\'94 that decides encryption algorithm, keys, and authenticates server to client
.     (also authenticate client to server if needed)  Data transferred is then encrypted
 according to handshake.  710-711 for 7 steps. See slide 74-75 chapter 8.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
20.   \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
21.  \tab\tab KDC -- Key Distribution Center -- symmetric key cryptography.  A single
, trusted network entity with whom one has established a \tab\tab\tab shared secret
 key.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
\tab\tab CA --  Certificate Authority -- public key cryptography.  CA certifies 
that a public key belongs to an entity, and is trustworthy.\tab\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
\tab\tab PGP -- Pretty Good Privacy.  Software creates public key pair for a user
.  Public key available via website or public key server.  \tab\tab\tab Private 
key protected by password; password must be used every time the private key is accessed
. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
\tab\tab IPsec -- IP security:  a suite of security protocols on network layer.  
AH, ESP; see 712-716, \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
22.  Firewall def in text:  \u8220\'93A combination of hardware and software that
 isolates an organization\u8217\'92s internal network from the Internet at large
, allowing some packets to pass and blocking others.\u8221\'94  692\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li1080{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
Packet Filtering -- examine datagram headers and apply filtering rules, usually 
based on IP source/destination, TCP or UDP source and dest. Port, ICMP message type
, Connection-initialization datagrams using TCP SYN or ACK bits.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
\tab\tab Application Gateway -- 695}}